in this video we're going to talk about
how listening can help you succeed and
how it can leave you fulfilled my name
is Joe Hudson and I'm a former venture
capitalist and I now coach some of the
most well-known names in Silicon Valley
so before we get into what kind of
listening helps you succeed and how to
listen I want to talk about the fact
that there's two forms of listening one
is an active form of listening and one
is a passive form of listening active
form of listening basically means that
you are evoking information and then
listening to it whereas passive forms of
listening is just the receiving of
information and both of those two things
can deeply affect how successful you are
and the Fulfillment you feel when you
are successful so I was a venture
capitalist for 15 years I received
dozens of pitches every week many people
coming to me looking for us to invest in
their company and of all those pitches
after 15 years it was really only five
maybe four people that ever asked me
questions about what we wanted to see so
I got presentations but nobody said hey
what's important to you about your
investment thesis we put it on the
website but often times their pitch
decks didn't match the things that we
were interested in seeing and that means
they just weren't even listening or
asking the right questions I remember
this moment where a CEO came in and said
hey tell me about your business model
tell me what you're looking for in your
investment so I can tell you if we're
fit and how we're fit and I remember
going finally somebody actually is
listening to us not by just paying
attention but listening by asking us
questions another great example of this
is that I now work with a ton of
Executives and they all have to hire
people they have to hire a lot of people
whenever they say hey I found somebody
I'm really excited about them my
response is always the same I was like
let me guess they asked you more
questions than you asked them in the
interview and they're like yeah how did
you know because that's what actually
engages people think about it this way
do you want to be listened
to yeah of course you do who doesn't
want to be listened to everybody wants
to be listened to therefore if you're
asking somebody questions you're
basically saying hey I'm interested in
how you think I'm interested in our
connection in the interaction and that
allows for a relationship to build so
asking questions an active form of
listening is super critical so how we
listen can have a huge influence on the
data that we receive on how people treat
us and the opportunities that we find so
let me explain a little bit if I was
listening to you and I was doing it for
from a stance of judgment where I'm
judging you the whole time you're going
to notice that you're going to share
less information with me you're not
going to be as vulnerable with me I'm
not going to know as much about you I'm
going to basically have no connection
with you at the end of the conversation
or I'm going to listen to you like you
need my help like I need to be of value
like I need to fix something in you and
that means you're going to respond with
maybe a little resentment maybe a little
tentativeness so there's a whole bunch
of things that you invite when you try
to fix somebody and try to be of value
to them alternatively imagine that
you're just being listened to with
unconditional
[Music]
acceptance just simple unconditional
acceptance you're going to get a lot
more data you're going to get to hear a
lot more about the person they're going
to share a lot more they're going to be
more vulnerable it's going to be more
honest it's going to be more patient
it's going to be more enjoyable they're
going to want to hang out with you more
you're going to hear them more clearly
you're not going to be thinking about
what to say and as they unwind as they
share with you you're going to start
seeing
opportunities right you're going to see
what they want to invest in either in a
relationship or in a business and you're
going to get to see if it's a right
match for you so that's what listening
just by the way that you listen how it
can affect relationships that you have
so I was on a train ride once and I
decided to really explore how well I
could listen and so I asked a person on
the train a simple question I can't
remember like what are you passionate
about and I listen to them speak for
over an hour and it was interesting for
me and it was very interesting for them
and I recognized at this moment oh not
only did I learn a tremendous amount
about horiculture because that's what
they were passionate about but I also
made a friend I also created a
connection I also learned a tremendous
amount and they felt fulfilled because
we all want to be listened to so we go
into a meeting and we think to ourselves
okay here's what I'm going to do here's
how I'm going to present here are the
slides this is what it's going to be but
we're not asking how we listen so when I
go up on stage I'm talking in front of
500 or a thousand people I'm listening I
don't often even know what I'm going to
say when I get up on stage I'm just
listening I start interacting with the
audience I see what they want and then
the whole thing comes from that
listening Place rather than from some
formula that I think is going to impress
somebody and it always works so recently
we were doing one of our workshops on
listening it was a great workshop and
somebody asked me this question which I
just thought was so wonderful they said
hey I'm not really built to listen to
people like this I'm not good at it how
do I get better at listening and my
response was like Hey like with any
skill you want to build reps right you
want to do little repetitions and so you
could do that with somebody else but
that will actually not be the quickest
way to learn how to listen the best way
is to listen to yourself with
unconditional acceptance 1 minute a day
2 minutes a day just listen put a
reminder on your phone to just listen to
yourself unconditionally with
unconditional
acceptance and it's amazing how you
react but it also makes you really good
at listening to others so to close off I
want to tell you a story about one of my
clients one of my clients had a
relationship that was causing them a lot
of pain and it was stopping them from
being as successful in their career
because they were always focused on all
the pain that was happening in their
relationship and one day they decided
hey I'm going to just listen with
unconditional acceptance just that
simple thing and I remember the next
week during one of our coaching sessions
they came back and they were just like
wow is it that simple can like like what
they just needed to be listened
to and and in that came this like huge
Epiphany for them that that just this
realization that oh wait probably my
employees don't feel listened to my
direct reports don't feel listened to
and they just start opening up and
listening and all of a sudden they
understood the problems of their
business they understood the problems of
their marriage people felt closer to
them they shared more
deeply and in that sharing and as they
talked about their problems the
solutions started forming because as
people talk about their problems
eventually they run into their own
Solutions so if you want a life that
feels really fulfilling because
listening feels really good especially
listening to yourself then all you have
to do is listen and watch the world
unfold if you want more content like
this hit subscribe or tell us what you
want to hear in one of the comments and
watch the next video
[Music]